---
title: Rest in peace, grep!
layout: post
tags: [programming, linux, tools]
comments: true
share: true
categories: blog
summary: 'Rest in peace, grep!'
---
I'm not saying that `grep` is slow or flawed in any way but it can be definitely faster (and better). And GNU grep is not the only player out there.

Let me introduce [`ripgrep`](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep), a grep/ag/ack alternative written in Rust.

So why should you use `ripgrep`? Because it's fast. Very fast! It has saner defaults. And it's written in Rust. (Topic for another time:)

> Also, I just learnt that ripgrep powers Visual Studio Code's search.

## Benefits
* Did I tell you that it's crazy fast?
* It searches recursively by default.
* It ignores hidden and binary files by default.
* It respects .gitignore. It will skip listed files and directories by default.
* You can restrict your search to specific filetypes.
* It prints pretty.
* It supports file encodings other than UTF-8.
* It's crazy fast.

## Gotchas
* Doesn't have multiline search.
* Since it uses threads heavily to do work, ripgrep's output is not deterministic. Tip: Pipe the output through `sort`.

> It's not a drop-in replacement for GNU grep or ag though. So don't replace them with rg in scripts without testing.

## Installation
If you have Rust toolchain (1.12 or newer) installed, you can install it using cargo. Add `~/.cargo/bin` to $PATH if you haven't yet.
```bash
$ cargo install ripgrep
```

If you run bleeding-edge Arch, run
```bash
$ pacman -S ripgrep
```

Fedora users can install it using:
```bash
$ dnf copr enable carlgeorge/ripgrep
$ dnf install ripgrep
```

On macOS, run
```bash
$ brew install ripgrep
```

If you are worrying about having to type 3 more letters everytime you search and don't know what an alias is, don't worry. The binary is called just `rg`. (:

## Usage
If you know how to use `grep`, you can use `ripgrep`. I'll just outline basic usage here though. Read the instructions on its GitHub page if you want to know everything about it.

To search any word recursively in a directory:
```bash
$ rg <keyword>
```
> `ripgrep`'s default behavior is to skip hidden and binary files apart from everything ignored by git. Use `-uuu` to disable that.

To search a keyword in only specific filetypes, pass the file extension to -t switch:
```bash
$ rg -tjs foo
```

To search a keyword in files matching the specified glob:
```bash
$ rg foo -g 'bar.*'
```

## Basic Benchmarks
I ran simple benchmarks on my machine (Core i7 6500U, 8GB RAM, KDE neon 5.12.5 based on Ubuntu 16.04) using `/usr/bin/time` binary and ripgrep seems to beat GNU grep everytime (by a huge margin!).

```bash
$ /usr/bin/time rg -uu import > /dev/null # ~24 seconds

$ /usr/bin/time grep -r import * > /dev/null # ~3 min 27 seconds
```

Keep in mind that these are not scientific benchmarks by any means. Go to ripgrep's [GitHub page](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep) for more comprehensive reports.